Capacity Reservation Proposal for ID & Status (#523)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/capacityreservationid.md

# Capacity Reservation ID

> A Capacity Reservation ID is the identifier assigned to a [*capacity reservation*](#glossary:capacity-reservation) by the provider. Capacity Reservation ID is commonly used for scenarios like chargeback for capacity reservation usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Capacity Reservation ID is the identifier assigned to a [*capacity reservation*](#glossary:capacity-reservation) by the provider. Capacity Reservation ID is commonly used for scenarios to allocate charges for capacity reservation usage.
```
nit: Slightly more vague to encapsulate chargeback and showback

> The CapacityReservationId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports capacity reservations. This column MUST be of type String and MUST NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a capacity reservation. When a charge is not associated with a capacity reservation, the column MUST be null. CapacityReservationId MUST be unique within the provider.

Reviewer: Wouldn't this be a "SHOULD" since AWS will not provide any ID values?

Author: good question; I pondered the same. Let's see how the conversation goes on Friday.

Reviewer: Lastly, needs to include normative text around corrections.  Something like ... `The value MAY be negative in cases where ChargeClass is "Correction`.

Author: I went ahead and made all of these changes.

> The CapacityReservationId column SHOULD be present in the billing data when the provider supports capacity reservations. This column MUST be of type String and SHOULD NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a capacity reservation. When a charge is not associated with a capacity reservation, the column MUST be null. CapacityReservationID SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CapacityReservationId column adheres to the following requirements:

* CapacityReservationId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *capacity reservations* and MUST be of type String.
* CapacityReservationId MUST NOT contain null values when the [CapacityReservationStatus](#capacityreservationstatus) is `Unused` and SHOULD NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a capacity reservation.
* CapacityReservationID SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.
```

# Capacity Reservation ID

A Capacity Reservation ID is the identifier assigned to a [*capacity reservation*](#glossary:capacity-reservation) by the provider. Capacity Reservation ID is commonly used for scenarios to allocate charges for capacity reservation usage.

The CapacityReservationId column adheres to the following requirements:

> * CapacityReservationId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *capacity reservations* and MUST be of type String.

Reviewer 3: nit:

```suggestion
* CapacityReservationId MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *capacity reservations* and MUST be of type String.
```

> * CapacityReservationId MUST NOT contain null values when the [CapacityReservationStatus](#capacityreservationstatus) is `Unused` and SHOULD NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a capacity reservation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* CapacityReservationId SHOULD NOT be null when a charge is related to a capacity reservation, MUST NOT be null when a charge represents the unused portion of a *capacity reservation*, and MUST be null when a charge is not related to a *capacity reservation*.
```

The goal was to avoid a circular reference: the CapacityReservationId column MUST NOT be null when the CapacityReservationStatus is Unused, while the CapacityReservationStatus MUST be null when the CapacityReservationId is null, etc. Of course, there is still room for better phrasing :)

Reviewer 3: Question:

Should we restrict CapacityReservationId (and consequentially CapacityReservationStatus) strictly to the ChargeCategory Usage or should we allow non-null values for Tax or possibly even Corrections as well?

# Capacity Reservation ID

A Capacity Reservation ID is the identifier assigned to a [*capacity reservation*](#glossary:capacity-reservation) by the provider. Capacity Reservation ID is commonly used for scenarios to allocate charges for capacity reservation usage.

The CapacityReservationId column adheres to the following requirements:

> * CapacityReservationID MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *capacity reservations* and MUST be of type String.

Reviewer 4: Small change, but this should be Pascal Case right?

CapacityReservationId

> * CapacityReservationId SHOULD NOT be null when a charge is related to a capacity reservation.

Reviewer 5: Not blocking on this, but I think we should make this a MUST. While I know it may not be possible by every provider, I would rather see this as a firm statement of what practitioners expect the column to do. We can make the column a SHOULD so it doesn't completely block conformance, but it's important for the column to be defined as practitioners need it to work.
```suggestion
* CapacityReservationId MUST NOT be null when a charge is related to a *capacity reservation*.
```

Reviewer 4: I don't like having a MUST because I don't think we've proven that this is a requirement for FOCUS with ODCRs to work. (It's not how it works in CUR today).

> * CapacityReservationId MUST NOT be null when a charge represents the unused portion of a *capacity reservation*.

Reviewer 5: If we change the previous requirement to a MUST, we don't need this. Fwiw, CommitmentDiscountId only has the previous statement, which technically covers used and unused. I don't have a fundamental issue with it. Just calling it out since it's a little duplicative. It also doesn't make sense to require unused but not used. If one can't be provided, then that should just be a documented gap rather than a "by design" limitation.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 4: I think it's important to make it possible to be conformant without having to label used ODCRs charges.

* CapacityReservationId MUST be null when a charge is not related to a *capacity reservation*.

> * CapacityReservationId SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CapacityReservationId MUST ensure global uniqueness within the provider and SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier.
```

Reviewer 3: That would be great, but unfortunately, we have not enforced uniqueness for either ResourceId or CommitmentDiscountId. I assume we still allow non-unique values for a reason.

A quote from ResourceId for reference:

> ResourceId SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider

Reviewer 5: CommitmentDiscountId does require uniqueness: `CommitmentDiscountId MUST be unique within the provider.` I would like to see us doing the same here. I like Chris' "fully qualified" amendment as well.

Reviewer 4: Yeah Im good with unique within the provider.

Reviewer 3: @flanakin @cnharris10 @AWS-ZachErdman

REMINDER: We've changed the CommitmentDiscountId requirement in the CommitmentUtilization PR #400 to align it with the ResourceId requirement.

v 1.0: 

> CommitmentDiscountId MUST be unique within the provider.

PR #400:

> CommitmentDiscountId SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.

I'm fully supportive of tightening the requirements for both CommitmentDiscountId and CapacityReservationId, and I hope the ResourceId will also become unique within the provider. :)
